README.md, before:

# tunebox

A terminal music player with album art, visualizer, and phone remote control.

![tunebox terminal](media/terminal.png)

## Install

### Step 1: Install Rust (if you don't have it)

**macOS / Linux:**
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

**Windows:**

Download and run [rustup-init.exe](https://win.rustup.rs/x86_64), then restart your terminal.

Verify installation:
```bash
rustc --version
```

### Step 2: Install tunebox

```bash
git clone https://github.com/himanshud2611/tunebox.git
cd tunebox
cargo install --path .
```

This installs `tunebox` to `~/.cargo/bin/` (Linux/macOS) or `%USERPROFILE%\.cargo\bin` (Windows).

> **Note:** If `tunebox` command not found after install, add cargo bin to your PATH:
> - **macOS/Linux:** Add `export PATH="$HOME/.cargo/bin:$PATH"` to `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`
> - **Windows:** The installer usually handles this, but restart your terminal

After install, you can delete the cloned folder - the binary is standalone (~5MB).

## Usage

```bash
tunebox ~/Music              # play a directory
tunebox song.mp3             # play a single file
tunebox ~/Music --shuffle    # start with shuffle on
tunebox ~/Music --port 8081  # remote control on custom port (default: 8080)
```

**Supported formats:** MP3, FLAC, WAV, OGG, AAC

## Remote Control

Control tunebox from your phone. When you start tunebox, it prints:

```
Remote control: http://192.168.1.74:8080
```

Open that URL on any device on the same WiFi. Features:
- Play/pause, next/prev, seek
- Volume slider
- Live visualizer
- Toggle shuffle, theme, and visualizer mode

<img src="media/remote-mobile.png" width="300" alt="Mobile remote control">

## Keybindings

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Space` | Play / Pause |
| `n` | Next track |
| `p` | Previous track |
| `j/k` or `↑/↓` | Navigate library |
| `Enter` | Play selected |
| `→/←` | Seek ±5 seconds |
| `+/-` or `]/[` | Volume up/down |
| `/` | Search library |
| `s` | Toggle shuffle |
| `r` | Cycle repeat (off → all → one) |
| `v` | Cycle visualizer mode |
| `i` | Toggle track info |
| `T` | Cycle theme (Default, Dracula, Nord, Gruvbox, Neon) |
| `t` | Cycle sleep timer (15/30/45/60 min) |
| `m` | Toggle mini mode |
| `</>` or `,/.` | Playback speed down/up |
| `q` | Quit |

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add tip to delete target folder after install

README.md, after:

# tunebox

A terminal music player with album art, visualizer, and phone remote control.

![tunebox terminal](media/terminal.png)

## Install

### Step 1: Install Rust (if you don't have it)

**macOS / Linux:**
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source $HOME/.cargo/env
```

**Windows:**

Download and run [rustup-init.exe](https://win.rustup.rs/x86_64), then restart your terminal.

Verify installation:
```bash
rustc --version
```

### Step 2: Install tunebox

```bash
git clone https://github.com/himanshud2611/tunebox.git
cd tunebox
cargo install --path .
```

This installs `tunebox` to `~/.cargo/bin/` (Linux/macOS) or `%USERPROFILE%\.cargo\bin` (Windows).

> **Note:** If `tunebox` command not found after install, add cargo bin to your PATH:
> - **macOS/Linux:** Add `export PATH="$HOME/.cargo/bin:$PATH"` to `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc`
> - **Windows:** The installer usually handles this, but restart your terminal

After install, you can delete the cloned folder - the binary is standalone (~5MB).

> **Tip:** The `target/` folder created during build is ~600MB. You can safely delete it after install:
> ```bash
> rm -rf target/
> ```

## Usage

```bash
tunebox ~/Music              # play a directory
tunebox song.mp3             # play a single file
tunebox ~/Music --shuffle    # start with shuffle on
tunebox ~/Music --port 8081  # remote control on custom port (default: 8080)
```

**Supported formats:** MP3, FLAC, WAV, OGG, AAC

## Remote Control

Control tunebox from your phone. When you start tunebox, it prints:

```
Remote control: http://192.168.1.74:8080
```

Open that URL on any device on the same WiFi. Features:
- Play/pause, next/prev, seek
- Volume slider
- Live visualizer
- Toggle shuffle, theme, and visualizer mode

<img src="media/remote-mobile.png" width="300" alt="Mobile remote control">

## Keybindings

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| `Space` | Play / Pause |
| `n` | Next track |
| `p` | Previous track |
| `j/k` or `↑/↓` | Navigate library |
| `Enter` | Play selected |
| `→/←` | Seek ±5 seconds |
| `+/-` or `]/[` | Volume up/down |
| `/` | Search library |
| `s` | Toggle shuffle |
| `r` | Cycle repeat (off → all → one) |
| `v` | Cycle visualizer mode |
| `i` | Toggle track info |
| `T` | Cycle theme (Default, Dracula, Nord, Gruvbox, Neon) |
| `t` | Cycle sleep timer (15/30/45/60 min) |
| `m` | Toggle mini mode |
| `</>` or `,/.` | Playback speed down/up |
| `q` | Quit |

## License

MIT
